---
layout: post
title: "Subdomain vs. Subdirectory"
date: 2013-04-16 11:40
author: CI Team
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
tags: []
language: en
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<p>Better blog.mydomain.com or mydomain.com/blog? Good question! If got asked this question again via <a href="https://twitter.com/Cayas_Software/status/320208299805011968">Twitter</a> on the weekend so therefore I decide to share my experiences:  <p>&nbsp; <p><b>Choose a subdomain, if….</b> <p>- You plan to offer “different services” which are “logical separated” on one domain <p>- You are able to influence the subdomains without much effort <p>Example: <p>Blog.mydomain.com <p>Shop.mydomain.com <p>Forum.mydomain.com <p>&nbsp; <p><b>Why?</b> <p>If you choose to use subdirectories it is much more difficult to age these services. It is easier to create a CNAME entry and with that for example blog.mydomain.com leads to Tumblr Blog and not to a machine. Also it is possible to run the different sites on several machines (without Loadbalancer and so on).  <p>&nbsp; <p><b>Choose a subdirectory, if….</b> <p>- You aren’t able to influent the subdomains (for example the whole applications-stack is installed at the customer but you don’t want the admin to unnecessary implement DNS-Settings <p>- The Application-Intern or the site is too small to create an own WebApp (like an Impressum for example)  <p>&nbsp; <p><b>What does Google think about this?</b> <p>Here is a <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_MswMYk05tk">statement</a> from a Google employee on YouTube. <p>&nbsp; <p><b>And what about Stackoverflow?</b> <p><b></b> <p>I really like this <a href="http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1965609/subdomain-vs-subdirectory-in-web-programming">answer</a>: <p><i>Pro’s for subdomains:</i> <p>· <i>You can isolate configuration (for for example apache) per-domain.</i> <p>· <i>It will be easier to migrate parts of your application to other machines. </i><i>Sub-directories won’t really give you this flexibility.</i> <p>· <i>Instead of having to use a $baseUri variable in every html template, you can just assume the root of the app is always /.</i> <p><i>Cons:</i> <p>· <i>It will be much more annoying to quickly setup staging or temporary development environments. For every ‘app’ you will now need DNS of hosts-file entries and webserver configuration. With subdirectories you could drop the app in a directory, and go!</i> <p>· <i>If you do ever have the requirement to deploy your application on a different system where using / is because of some odd policy not possible, some rewriting might be in order.</i> <p><i>My advice:</i> <p><i>Make sure you can always do both, which will give you the best of both worlds. Every part of your app should have a configurable base uri that is always respected. As long as you make sure you can always go both ways, then who cares what you do? it’s just a url and it can always be changed.</i> <p><b></b>&nbsp; <p><b>But aren’t you using code-inside.de/blog yourself?</b> <p><b></b> <p>Well – when I created this blog some years ago I just didn’t know it better. The problem with a change would be that the old Links still have to work and I’m not sure how Google would take the news.  <p>Therefore: think about this before you start.
