---
layout: post
title: "Debugging .NET based Windows Error Reports (WER)"
description: "Everytime a Windows App crashs a 'Windows Error Report' is generated. The report contains some useful information for debugging your application. The blogpost will show you how to read the report data."
date: 2016-03-22 23:30
author: Robert Muehsig
tags: [Debugging, .NET, WER, Windows]
language: en
---
{% include JB/setup %}

GIF OF EXECPTION

## The last hope: Windows Error Reports

The "Windows Error Report" (WER) is automatically generated by Windows and can be seen in the Eventlog. In most cases, you might see some other - debugging friendlier - event logs:

SCREENSHOT

I also strongly recommand that you should use some logging libraries inside your application as well. 

If you still don't have a clue where your application breaks or those other eventlogs are missing the report can be used to see where the exception is thrown in your .NET application.

## Windows Error Report for .NET Apps

A typical report could look like this:

    Fault bucket 129047406839, type 5
    Event Name: CLR20r3
    Response: Not available
    Cab Id: 0
    
    Problem signature:
    P1: BreakStuff.App.exe
    P2: 1.0.0.0
    P3: 56eb2416
    P4: BreakStuff.App
    P5: 1.0.0.0
    P6: 56eb2416
    P7: 5
    P8: a
    P9: FatalError
    P10: 
    
    Attached files:
    C:\Users\Robert\AppData\Local\Temp\WERE708.tmp.WERInternalMetadata.xml
    C:\Users\Robert\AppData\Local\Temp\WERF4B5.tmp.appcompat.txt
    C:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows\WER\Temp\WERF4D5.tmp.dmp
    C:\Users\Robert\AppData\Local\Temp\WERF65D.tmp.WERDataCollectionFailure.txt
    C:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows\WER\ReportQueue\AppCrash_BreakStuff.App.e_1952fbbdf8ecceaa6e9af5c44339210849f4774_b2bbc455_cab_7634f669\memory.hdmp
    WERGenerationLog.txt

Each [P-stands for a different part](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/oanapl/2009/01/30/windows-error-reporting-and-clr-integration/) of the application.

__P1: "BreakStuff.App.exe" = App name or host process__ e.g. your.exe or Outlook.exe for a .NET addin. 
__P2: "1.0.0.0" = Version of the executabe__
__P3: "56eb2416" = Timestamp of the executable__
__P4: "BreakStuff.App" = Faulting assembly and module name__
__P5: "1.0.0.0" = Version of the faulting module
__P6: "56eb2416" = Timestamp of the faulting module__
__P7: "5" = MethodDef__ – MethodDef token for the faulting method, after stripping off the high byte. This is the faulting method in your code. *Super important!*
__P8: "a" = IL offset__ - in hex, in combination with P7 will it show you the *exact position of the exception* in your method.
__P9: "FatalError" = Exception type

P1-P3 should be easy to understand and nothing new. If you have a bigger application P4 might lead to the correct namespace.

Most important is P7 & P8 - I will show you how to read it. P7 will lead to the 

## Finding the MethodDef token with ILDASM.exe

As far as I know you could try to use WinDbg, but I was too stupid to use it correctly. 

To get the method token you need "ildasm.exe", which is included in the .NET SDK, which is part of the Windows SDK.

On a Windows 10 machine you can use this version:

C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft SDKs\Windows\v10.0A\bin\NETFX 4.6 Tools\ildasm.exe

As far as I know it doesn't matter if your target application is using .NET 4.6 or not.

"ildasm.exe" itself is not a beauty. Now open your assembly from __P4__ with this tool.

SCREENSHOT

To see the tokens, press __CTRL + M__ and search for __P7__.

In my case I see this:

	Method #2 (06000005) 
	-------------------------------------------------------
		MethodName: ButtonBase_OnClick (06000005)
		Flags     : [Private] [HideBySig] [ReuseSlot]  (00000081)
		RVA       : 0x0000208c
		ImplFlags : [IL] [Managed]  (00000000)
		CallCnvntn: [DEFAULT]
		hasThis 
		ReturnType: Void
		2 Arguments
			Argument #1:  Object
			Argument #2:  Class System.Windows.RoutedEventArgs
		2 Parameters
			(1) ParamToken : (08000001) Name : sender flags: [none] (00000000)
			(2) ParamToken : (08000002) Name : e flags: [none] (00000000)

Take a look at the method description: 0600000 __5__ - the 0600000 is the high byte (whatever that means... - just search for the number, I bet you will find something.)

Ok - now we know the actual method. The exception occures in the ButtonBase_OnClick method!

## Finding the exact position of the faulting code with ILSpy

Now we need to look at the methods IL. You could use ILSpy for this. Make sure you switch from the C# view to IL view and go to the faulting method:

SCREENSHOT
 
	// Method begins at RVA 0x208c
	// Code size 11 (0xb)
	.maxstack 8

	IL_0000: ldstr "I'm dead!"
	IL_0005: call void [mscorlib]System.Environment::FailFast(string)
	IL_000a: ret
    } // end of method MainWindow::ButtonBase_OnClick

As you might remember - P8 pointed to "a", which is the IL_000a__ instruction. Done!

## Big picture 
	
I never thought I had to read the internal IL, but we had one weird case where no logfiles where generated and we used this to get to the source of the exception. 


	
	
	
__[Full Sample Code on GitHub](https://github.com/Code-Inside/Samples/tree/master/2016/XmlIntelliSense)__
	
Hope this helps!
